I had a funny situation the other day
you know I was um I was walking down the
street and it's a street that's real
familiar to me I was crossing the street
an intersection where very frequently
people try to nudge me out of the way
with their cars or motorcycles or people
actually kind of try to run you over
this came up in my podcast with mod
vegan mod vegan was asking about what
kind of situations in real life when do
you really have to be prepared for fist
fights for physical confrontations and I
gave this as an example where literally
are in a situation saying look you're
not going to run me over without a fight
mmm sorry the camera is acting up this
is this problem I have when I both
natural light and artificial light this
camera starts to act strangely um anyway
see no with this particular intersection
I have a lot of practice with people and
their motorbikes of their cars kind of
ramming into me or at were you know I
have to look them in the eye and one of
them's that normally say to them in
Chinese I point to the light above me I
say it's red you can see that the light
is red like you know like if they're
supposed to stop you know and they're
not only not stopping but they're trying
to get me to dodge them or whatever
weather try to run me over from whatever
your perspective it's so this particular
intersection I have a lot of experience
that kind of confrontation you know
funniest thing happened I really laughed
my ass off 30 seconds after this
confrontation wrapped up but I got to
this intersection then most of the time
its people on motorcycles doing that not
cars because if the cars run the red
light they can get you know they can
have a serious accident for the
motorbikes that kind of weave through
scared to this intersection and there
are two cops in a cop car you know fully
uniformed cops in a proper you know
police car it's not an undercover car
and the police car doesn't have its
sirens on or anything and the car park
comes to the intersection and you know
what was funny the two cops both of them
are leaning out the window this is the
you know the two windows the driver's
side and passenger side both of them are
actually leaning out you know and they
both have expressions on their face
slightly playful childish expressions
you can see they're really having fun
for whatever reason they're having a
good day these cops I don't know
I don't know what's up a lot of time you
meet cops and their morose and tired but
these cops are having a good time cops
get to the intersection now look I'm not
boasting I'm a big guy I'm six foot
three I'm bald I look like a foreigner I
don't blend in here in China you know me
I don't disappear into the crowd cops
get to this intersection and the funny
thing is they're looking everywhere
except at me and I'm in front of their
car they're about to fuck and run me
over and when you think about this to
reason why are they looking around that
way two reasons one they're looking out
for other cars that might crash into
when they run this red light and the
other thing is they're looking out for
other cops at that intersection by that
intersection because there are some
night clubs there there's actually a
police stand not really a police station
but anyway it's possible there be other
cops that would reproach them from
running this red light in China if they
don't have the sirens on if there isn't
an emergency cops are not supposed to
run the red light they're supposed to
you know obey the obey the rules like
everyone else and quick so the cops come
up and despite the fact that have a big
guy like it's it's not like they don't
see me and whatever I'm a foreigner and
I'm bold these cuffs not only are going
to try to run the red light but they're
gonna try to whatever you gonna say
nudge me out of the way or get me to
jump out of the way because I'm in front
of their car I'm in there I'm in their
path was sick and I don't get out of
their way I hold up one hand you know
I've got so whatever from doing this
with the camera I put a hand up in front
of the windshield because I'm walking
from them looking the drivers straight
in the eye and I say to him and I don't
even have to shout because she's not
behind the wheel the driver is leaning
out the window of the cop car on both
sides they're hanging out the window and
smiling like I said they're really
enjoying themselves weird happy they're
cops having a good day so I say to him
without even raising my voice cuz he's
not inside he's kind of halfway out the
car I say to him it's a red light isn't
it funny I guess you know what two men
like that like again like I didn't have
to raise my voice I got my hand up in
his face so to speak
and it's completely clear if you're
gonna fuck with me I'm gonna fuck with
y'all gonna fight that there's no threat
but it's completely obvious in the
scenario thank you right now or for no
reason threatening my life I'm not gonna
step out of the way your car if you
don't back down I'm not going to back
down so we can do it so much gets
communicated all I said to them was you
know it's red isn't it it's a red light
isn't and both of the cops leaning out
it was so funny because you saw the
changing expressed basis they were
really enjoying themselves they were
really relishing the moment of having
this little meaningless transgression
you know what I mean they were relishing
the opportunity to run this red light
and there did just add this childish
joyful expression in their faces and
then they both look at me and they're
like yeah yeah you're right you know
sort of adorable sincere reaction from
these two cops if what could be a tense
situation out a way I gotta hand up and
I keeping icon day with them and I'm not
running I'm not jumping out of the way I
continue walking protection and when I
get across I really break down laughing
because I've been through that with so
many drivers now and different people
react in different ways I never had
someone gets sincerely angry with me
when it's a guy on the motorcycle with
his girlfriend on the back sometimes
they want to front like they're going to
start a fistfight with me or something
but they all know they're in the wrong
like fundamental they're running a red
light in their nudging me they're not
just the running red light and it's not
a victimless crime I'm right they are in
contact with the hood of your car or
whatever you know what I mean like it's
not really debatable who's in the wrong
and in these situations and it's also
not debatable that I've got double your
body weight so if we're gonna have a
fistfight on the tarmac it's going to go
one way now obviously I don't know I'm
here to learn Chinese if I spend some
time in a Chinese prison I don't know
how that would help my language skills I
don't know how that would go but this is
the ultimate surreal situation that
me facing down two cops not one but two
cops who know though in the row you know
anywhere whatever I've been through that
same snare it's because I've rehearsed
it so many times that I was just so
practice they were and when I got my
stuff so I really broke down laughing
cuz you know I don't know mmm how does
this um how does this link back to
veganism you know the other day I was
talking to my teacher we had this
miserable failure of an attempt to go
and find a vegan restaurant walked a
long long distance in the rain feet get
wet shoes get ruined you know and she
made some comments she apologized we
ended up not being able to find we're
searching for two different vegan
restaurants they both didn't exist what
have you but i remember i said to her
look you know she made some excuse you
should oh it's sad this is part of
Chinese culture i said no I've lived in
Taiwan I've lived in Hong Kong it's
isn't Chinese culture people become good
when they want to become good you know
when people are interested in morality
when people are interested in the
difference to you right and wrong they
changed their behavior accordingly and
you know again I'm not saying anything
bad about these cops the cops I mean
they behaved a lot better than some of
the other random civilians on
motorcycles and the cops in this case
they knew they were in the wrong they
knew they were running a red light and
they knew they were disregarding a
person who was standing right in front
of the hood of their car a person either
F to jump out of the way or roll onto
the hood of their car or do what I did
and tell them to back down they knew
they were in the wrong and they cared so
you know they you know that I didn't
apologize but they really nodded to me
they put up it and like yeah yeah they
knew I was I was right you know either
either people care they don't and yeah
it's miserable every day to be bearing
that message and be a witness to that
fact that you're just in a society where
nobody cares but the deaths of millions
of animals and the waist and the blood
and the gore and the misery and
ecological devastation associated with
that but when you're dealing with people
like that even with such a momentary you
know what I know 45 second interaction
with somebody that's what you're going
to find out either they care about
doing the right thing or they don't and
I don't know ah I mean you know I'm not
looking for conflict but the ultimate it
again services is what I was talking
about before i turn the camera you know
there's nothing dramatic about the
scenario the question is ultimately are
you going to run me over or not and if
you're threatening to run me over am I
supposed to just lay down and let it
happen or am I going to stand up for
myself and say I'm not going down
without a fight but there's nothing
dramatic about it comedic it's more
comedic than dramatic truth be told